feat: deprecate extend methods (#2299)
garden-co/jazz: homepage/homepage/content/docs/groups/inheritance.mdx

import { ContentByFramework, CodeGroup } from '@/components/forMdx'

export const metadata = {
  description: "Add groups as members of other groups."
};

# Groups as members

Groups can be added to other groups using the `addMember` method.

When a group is added as a member of another group, members of the parent group will become part of the child group.

## Basic usage

> Here's how to add a child group to a parent group:

Reviewer: Child/parent doesn't sound aligned with the interpretation of groups as members.

How about wording it in something like:

> Here's how to add a group as member of another group

<CodeGroup>
```ts twoslash
import { Group } from "jazz-tools";
// ---cut---
const playlistGroup = Group.create();
const trackGroup = Group.create();

// Tracks are now visible to the members of playlist
trackGroup.addMember(playlistGroup);
```
</CodeGroup>

When you add groups as members:

> - Members of the parent group get access to the child group

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
- Members of the added group become members of the container group
```

- Their roles are inherited (with some exceptions, see [below](#the-rules-of-role-inheritance))

> - Removing a member from the parent group also removes their access to child groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Revoking access from the member group also removes their access to the container groups
```

## Levels of inheritance

Adding a group as a member of another is not limited in depth:

<CodeGroup>
```ts twoslash
import { Group } from "jazz-tools";
// ---cut---
const grandParentGroup = Group.create();
const parentGroup = Group.create();
const childGroup = Group.create();

childGroup.addMember(parentGroup);
parentGroup.addMember(grandParentGroup);
```
</CodeGroup>

Members of the grandparent group will get access to all descendant groups based on their roles.

## Roles

### The rules of role inheritance

> If the account is already a member of the child group, it will get the more permissive role:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the account is already a member of the container group, it will get the more permissive role:
```

// can only read the billing data
billingGroup.addMember(organizationGroup, "reader");
```
</CodeGroup>

The "override role" works in both directions:

<CodeGroup>
```ts twoslash
import { Group } from "jazz-tools";
import { createJazzTestAccount } from 'jazz-tools/testing';
const alice = await createJazzTestAccount();
const bob = await createJazzTestAccount();
// ---cut---
const parentGroup = Group.create();
parentGroup.addMember(bob, "reader");
parentGroup.addMember(alice, "admin");

const childGroup = Group.create();
childGroup.addMember(parentGroup, "writer");

// Bob and Alice are now writers in the child group
```
</CodeGroup>

### Permission changes

When you remove a member from a parent group, they automatically lose access to all child groups. We handle key rotation automatically to ensure security.

<CodeGroup>
```ts twoslash
import { Group } from "jazz-tools";
import { createJazzTestAccount } from 'jazz-tools/testing';
const bob = await createJazzTestAccount();
const parentGroup = Group.create();
parentGroup.addMember(bob, "reader");
// ---cut---
// Remove member from parent
await parentGroup.removeMember(bob);

// Bob loses access to both parent and child groups

> ```

Reviewer: This might be a good opportunity to also explain that removing a member from the container group doesn't revoke access if they also have access to a member group.

You can get all the parent groups of a group by calling the `getParentGroups` method:

<CodeGroup>
```ts twoslash
import { Group } from "jazz-tools";
// ---cut---
const childGroup = Group.create();
const parentGroup = Group.create();
childGroup.addMember(parentGroup);

> console.log(childGroup.getParentGroups()); // [parentGroup]

Reviewer: For consistency, how about renaming this to `childGroup.getMemberGroups()`
